# Link Click Tracking (Ruby on Rails)

## Description Overview

This Rails 8 application tracks every link click within the `Posts` page, both to internal pages and external websites, and stores the link click details within the database under the `link_clicks` table.

## Core Features

### Controller

The primary logic for handling link clicks is contained in the `LinkClicksController`. The controller includes rate limiting to prevent abuse of the create action.

A rate limit controller contained in the `ErrorsController` has also been implemented to redirect the user to an error page if they hit the rate limit for clicking links.

The `AdminController` contains the data for the link click statistics.

### Job

The `LinkClickJob` is responsible for handling the asynchronous processing of link click data. It ensures that the `Posts` page remains responsive by offloading the processing to a background job.

### Repository

The `LinkClickRepository` contains methods related to the management of link click data and any associated caching.

The `ApplicationRepository` contains basic methods for database transactions.

#### Cache Management

Cache Clearing: The cache is cleared when a link click is recorded to ensure data freshness.

### Stimulus Controller

To enhance user interaction with the Link Clicks feature, a Stimulus controller is implemented. This controller captures click events and sends the data to the server.

### Admin Page

A very simple admin page has been implemented to manage and view link click data. This page allows administrators to monitor user interactions and analyze trends.

Features of the Admin Page
View Click Data: Admins can view a list of relevant statistics of link clicks such as total number of link clicks, the most clicked URL, and the number of clicks overtime.
Filter Options: Options to filter link clicks by date.

## Installation

### Prerequisite

- Ensure you have Ruby 3.3.5 installed.

### Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/paulofs321/link_tracking_test.git
   cd your-repo-name

2. **Install Dependencies**:

   ```bash
   bundle install

3. **Set Up the Database**:

   ```bash
   bin/rails db:create
   bin/rails db:migrate

4. **Precompile the assets**:
   ```bash
   bin/rails assests:precompile
   
5. **Run the Server**:

   ```bash
   bin/rails server

6. **Insert seed data to database**:

   ```bash
   bin/rails db:seed

## Usage

Access the `localhost:3000/posts` page and click the links in the posts generated by the seed data. From here you can go to `localhost:3000/admin` to see the link click statistics.
